## Datatypes, Data Storage and Variables

Datatype is a core concept in any programming language. Datatype refers to the different ways a language represents data. All data, is stored numerically in a computer. This is because most fundamentally the only thing computers understand are 1s and 0s. And more specifically, what they REALLY understand is whether there is power present (1) or not (0). Through layers of abstraction, programmers are able to connect the way computers see data and how humans do. Different datatypes let us represent (both internally in our computations and externally to a monitor) values different ways.  

What are datatypes you ask? Good question! Datatypes are surprisingly what they sound like.  They refer to the type of data that a language is able to work with: display, store and manipulate. There are a core set you should expect every language to have, but they may handle them differently.  Here's a list of core datatypes that should be available to you:
* integers-these are whole numbers, or counting numbers. Examples: 1, 2, 3, 85, 4356, 9432689... you get the idea.
* floating point (decimal)-these have fractional parts. Examples: 1.45, 23.68086, 1.25e-03. The last is scientific notation which is just a way to easily see how big or small a number is. 
* characters/strings-many languages differentiate between singlar character values and arrays of characters which make up strings. **NOTE: While chars (characters) are generally a core datatype, strings may or may not be a core datatype. Sometimes they are handled through a library.**
* boolean-these are fun and have a lot of uses. Fancy name, but basically boolean values are True or False (1 or 0). Boolean values let you test conditions.
* date/time-obviously you know what dates and times are. However, it is good to know that while computers display dates and times in familiar forms, they store them weirdly.  Most store a value that represents the number of seconds since some reference date. It is a floating point number. Generally, you don't have to worry about the specifics, but it is good to know in case your run into issues. **NOTE: sometimes date/times are a core datatype, other times they are handled through a library.**